CNV#52870: Multi IOthread with fast storage (#92893)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-configure-multiple-iothreads.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/managing_vms/virt-edit-vms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configure-multiple-iothreads_{context}"]
== Configuring multiple IOThreads for fast storage access

> You can improve storage performance by configuring multiple IOThreads for a virtual machine (VM) that uses fast storage, such as SSD or NVMe. This option is only available by editing the VM YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can improve storage performance by configuring multiple IOThreads for a virtual machine (VM) that uses fast storage, such as solid-state drive (SSD) or non-volatile memory express (NVMe). This configuration option is only available by editing YAML of the VM.
```

[NOTE]
====

> Multiple IOThreads are supported only when `blockMultiQueue` is enabled and the disk bus is set to `virtio`. Disks must use `bus: virtio`, and enabling `blockMultiQueue: true` is required for this feature to work correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple IOThreads are supported only when `blockMultiQueue` is enabled and the disk bus is set to `virtio`. You must set this configuration for the configuration to work correctly.
```

====

.Procedure

. Click *Virtualization* -> *VirtualMachines* from the side menu.

. Select a virtual machine to open the *VirtualMachine details* page.

. Click the *YAML* tab to open the VM manifest.

. In the YAML editor, locate the `spec.template.spec.domain` section and add or modify the following fields:
+
[source,yaml]
----
domain:
  ioThreadsPolicy: supplementalPool
  ioThreads:
    supplementalPoolThreadCount: 4
  devices:
    blockMultiQueue: true
    disks:
    - name: datavolume
      disk:

>         bus: virtio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        bus: virtio
# ...
```

----

. Click *Save*.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> This setting cannot be changed while the VM is running. You must stop the VM before applying the changes, and restart it afterward for the new settings to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spec.template.spec.domain` setting cannot be changed while the VM is running. You must stop the VM before applying the changes, and then restart the VM for the new settings to take effect.
```
